[MUSIC]
>> Joe Nelson: So we did 1 and 2 and 3.
What does 3 ask us to do?
Create a function to find
the largest number in a list.
And what are we allowed to use?
This greater thing,
which we just created, which returns
the greater of its two inputs.
So it's saying we can
do this with currying.
And one of the list functions,
map, filter, or reduce.
Okay, well,
let's think about that first bit.
Think that through first.
So we want to find
the greatest number in a list.
Okay, that kind of rules map out,
in my mind.
Because if I'm given a list, and
I'm operating on each cell and
making a new list.
I don't want a new list,
I want the biggest thing in the list.
So there goes map.
Filter is almost there.
What if we had a way to filter out
the ones that aren't the greatest?
And it would give us
a list with one thing.
And then we could take
the beginning of the list.
It's kind of complicated,
whereas reduce is pretty good.
Reduce is like rolling a snowball.
You have this thing that you have
the beginning kernel of snow.
And you roll it on the ground,
it gets bigger and bigger and accumulates.
[LAUGH]
>> Joe Nelson: And
what would the snowball be?
Reduce is often used to
add numbers together.
You would say, I start with zero.
And then the numbers in the list,
I add them in.
And that's that's my snowball growing.
Here we have a greater thing.
And in a way that Brian's gonna describe,
these things are,
maybe this isn't a monoid, maybe it is.
Max with numbers is a mathematical
structure that you gonna identify.
When we're saying separate and
recognize them before.
We're gonna start to recognize
mathematical structures.
And seeing those structures that make you
think, I should be using a reduce here.
But in this case, it is a reduce.
Let's see, so
I'm gonna walk through what it would do.
Why I am about to type
what I'm gonna type.
Reduce takes a function that says,
given the snowball we've accumulated so
far and the next flake it's
about to run over and pick up.
How do we make the new snowball?
And this max, this greater thing.
If you'd been rolling over and
saying, every number I see.
If I see a new number, and
I have the current winning number,
we combine them to find
which is actually higher.
And you keep doing that.
So your snowball's really just one number
that's getting larger, and larger, and
larger if it finds larger
things ahead of it.
So we can reduce.
You see how greater works, by the way?
Let's check it out,
greater(1,2), greater(2,1).
It just gives you the bigger number.
So let's reduce on it.
>> Joe Nelson: I'm trying to think
of the order that they do it.
It's the function and the initial value.
Is that what it would be in this thing?
But wait, if I do this,
it's actually going to fail.
Can we think of why?
[LAUGH] We start with zero, and now we're
gonna start seeing things from the list.
>> Joe Nelson: Or will it will fail?
I'm thinking there could be
a problem with negative numbers.
>> Joe Nelson: Yeah, yeah,
yeah, so we have two tests.
So it passes the first test.
But in the case when we passed in zero for
the second test, zero is actually bigger
than any of the numbers in the list.
So it de facto wins.
It's like before you even started,
it's over.
So that's why we're talking about
the negative infinity thing.
If the way we reduce is to find new
kings of the hill, new bigger numbers,
we wanna start with the weakest numbers
to be sure that everyone has a chance.
Don't put it an insane
contender in to begin with.
Negative infinity,
>> Joe Nelson: See,
there you get your satisfaction
at the end, All tests pass.
>> Co-Instructor: We did it.
Did we go over Challenge 2?
>> Joe Nelson: Let's see.
I thought so, this is Challenge 2.
To triple every number in a list?
Yeah, like using a map and making
a triple, and putting them together.
>> Co-Instructor: I was
just busy chatting jokes.
[LAUGH].
>> Joe Nelson: I see.
[LAUGH] I wonder if now is
a good time to continue.
[COUGH] It hard to feel
where everybody is.
Is every one here good, thumbs up?
That wasn't a lot of thumbs up.
[LAUGH]
>> Co-Instructor: Does
anybody need a reduce primer?
Or does everybody understand reduce?
Cuz we're gonna look
at those with monoids?
>> Audience 1: It wouldn't hurt.
[LAUGH]
>> Co-Instructor: All right,
I'm just gonna do it quickly.
Explicit function that
shows the accumulator.
>> Joe Nelson: Could we make a new
thing that reduces something?
Let's see, what else could we do?
We could use adding numbers
together with reduce.
I'm trying to think of
another good example.
>> Co-Instructor: How about
concating a list, yeah.
>> Joe Nelson: Concating a list, okay.
Do we have-
>> Co-Instructor: Make map with reduce.
>> Joe Nelson: Yeah, I'm trying to think.
So we have concat, don't we?
We have push,
that's kind of [INAUDIBLE] though.
>> Joe Nelson: So how we do it?
Our accumulator's got
a list going already and
wants to put a new thing into that list.
So let's think of how we do that.
Our function-
>> Audience 1: Can you clear your
screen so you start at the top?
>> Joe Nelson: Yeah.
>> Co-Instructor: You
might have to refresh.
>> Joe Nelson: Let me just refresh.
>> Joe Nelson: Yeah, okay.
>> Joe Nelson: So the goal,
>> Joe Nelson: What is our goal?
If we have a list,
to make another list that's the same?
That's kind of a weird goal.
>> Co-Instructor: Let's just
implement map with reduce.
>> Joe Nelson: Implement map with reduce,
okay.
>> Co-Instructor: Standard tidbit,
it reduces a catamorphism or a fold.
>> Joe Nelson: Undefined, okay.
So how this is gonna work?
We have a list that's coming in.
We have a function we
should apply to each thing.
And we want to build up a new
list one at a time with it.
>> Joe Nelson: So we'll reduce, I see.
I'm going to make actually, until I figure
out how to do it without using arguments,
using it with arguments.
var newmap = function,
I'll try it with two.
A function that takes what would I
like to do to this thing on the list.
>> Joe Nelson: And inside,
we'll return reduce.
>> Co-Instructor: Can you do a space,
or an error, or does it blow up?
>> Joe Nelson: I think it blows up.
>> Co-Instructor: All right.
[LAUGH]
>> Joe Nelson: I wonder if I should write
it in VIM or something or
some other place, and
then in line and paste it in here.
Let's do that.
>> Joe Nelson: Okay, so we're gonna curry
this function that takes this, cool.
>> Joe Nelson: All right,
full screen it, oops.
>> Joe Nelson: So,
>> Joe Nelson: We're reducing with,
>> Joe Nelson: Another function,
which I think is the composition.
[LAUGH] Hope this is useful.
>> Co-Instructor: [LAUGH]
>> Joe Nelson: [LAUGH] With
the composition of concat and
our thing we would like to do, I think.
So we have something that's coming in,
let's see if it works.
>> Joe Nelson: And
we're starting with an empty list, and
we're starting actually with,
>> Joe Nelson: This looks really iffy.
>> Co-Instructor: Hey Joe,
I don't want to interrupt you, but
I have a couple questions
once you're done.
>> Joe Nelson: Actually,
let's take the questions.
It's a good time right now.
>> Co-Instructor: Now,
okay, Dominic L was asking,
does reduce when not passed,
shoot, hold on.
I'm typing, everyone.
>> Multiple: [LAUGH]
>> Co-Instructor: Does reduce when not
passed an init value not just start using
the first two values in that array?
Isn't that how it's like,
>> Co-Instructor: Array.prototype.reduce
works?
You have previousVal, nextVal,
index and array or something, right.
>> Audience 2: Yeah, I think I mean,
if you wanna get down to the, or
you can answer that.
But I just wanted to mention
that JavaScript's reduce,
it gives you more stuff than
the normal other language reduce.
Like it will pass in indexes
in the rest of the array.
The main things to focus on is
the previousVal and currentVal, I think.
That'll get you reduce across any
language, like the idea of the fold.
>> Co-Instructor: Okay, and
Mims W was asking that the starting value
that we were providing
seemed a little weird.
Can we explain a little bit more about how
initial values should be used with reduce?
>> Joe Nelson: So let's see, the,
>> Joe Nelson: Oops.
>> Co-Instructor: Well, and
we're implementing the map in it.
Do you wanna try to talk about that?
>> Joe Nelson: Just trying to find it.
>> Joe Nelson: Wait, so
the one in the exercise or
the one we were trying to cobble together?
>> Co-Instructor: We were
implementing map with reduce.
And that's pretty clear on how
the iterator gets passed, or
the accumulator gets passed through.
The seed is just the very
first accumulator.
So the empty list, I don't know,
I feel like following through
with that really quickly.
>> Joe Nelson: I feel like, number one,
this is probably incorrect.
How does it look to you?
>> Co-Instructor: I would write
a function instead of compose.
>> Joe Nelson: Okay.
>> Co-Instructor: It
takes its accumulator.
>> Joe Nelson: What should
we call this thing?
>> Joe Nelson: Add change to something,
add new?
>> Co-Instructor: concatList or
something, I don't know.
[LAUGH] Names,
that's why they don't want names.
>> Joe Nelson: Yeah.
>> Audience 3: One of the things
I'm going to admit to here.
When you first were saying
you were going to do this,
I thought about using
the push on the array.
Because I'm JavaScript, which push,
and you're going into all these other
functions that you
obviously know the library.
And cuz okay, if you want to keep
adding on to an array through this,
basically, make map with the reduce.
I was thinking, well,
the input's an array and
then I'm gonna push every element onto it.
Was my initial thought, but
you're going beyond that because
of your knowledge of the library.
>> Joe Nelson: Also because even in
native JavaScript, there's .concat.
What I don't like about push, I like it
in many ways, being imperative, I guess.
>> Audience 3: Yep, yep.
>> Joe Nelson: But
is that if I say [1,2,3].push(4),
it returns 4 and not the new array.
And it modifies the original array.
So it's this weird changing thing.
It doesn't even give you
back what it changed.
It's really awkward.
So if I was gonna try and
compose that with other things,
it would break the string because it's not
giving you back the thing in progress.
It just says, great, you pushed 4.
It's like, I don't care about 4,
I care about this list that's happening.
>> Co-Instructor: And
concat is pure, push is impure.
Cuz it mutates the original, yeah.